README.md, before:

# files-from-path

> Match provided glob paths to file objects with readable stream

[![Build](https://github.com/web3-storage/files-from-path/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/web3-storage/files-from-path/actions/workflows/main.yml)
[![dependencies Status](https://status.david-dm.org/gh/web3-storage/files-from-path.svg)](https://david-dm.org/web3-storage/files-from-path)
[![JavaScript Style Guide](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-standard-brightgreen.svg)](https://standardjs.com)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/files-from-path.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/files-from-path)
[![Minzipped size](https://badgen.net/bundlephobia/minzip/files-from-path)](https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=files-from-path)

## Install

```sh
# install it as a dependency
$ npm i files-from-path
```

## Usage

```js
import { filesFromPath } from 'files-from-path'

for await (const f of filesFromPath(`path/to/somewhere`)) {
  console.log(f)
  // { name: '/path/to/me', stream: [Function: stream] }
}
```

## API

### filesFromPath

The following parameters can be provided to `filesFromPath`.

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| paths | `Iterable<string> | AsyncIterable<string> | string` | File system path(s) to glob from |
| [options] | `object` | options |
| [options.hidden] | `boolean` | Include .dot files in matched paths |
| [options.ignore] | `string[]` | Glob paths to ignore |
| [options.followSymlinks] | `boolean` | follow symlinks |
| [options.preserveMode] | `boolean` | preserve mode |
| [options.mode] | `number` | mode to use - if preserveMode is true this will be ignored |
| [options.preserveMtime] | `boolean` | preserve mtime |
| [options.pathPrefix] | `string` | base path prefix that will get stripped out of the filenames yielded |

It `yields` file like objects in the form of `{ name: String, stream: AsyncIterator<Buffer> }`

### getFilesFromPath

This takes the same parameters as `filesFromPath`, but returns a `Promise<{ name: String, stream: AsyncIterator<Buffer> }[]>` by creating an array with all the yield file like objects from the path.

## Releasing

You can publish by either running npm publish in the dist directory or using npx ipjs publish.

Commit message:

feat!: auto common prefix removal and switch to web streams (#23)
This PR propagates the change here https://github.com/web3-storage/w3cli/pull/27 so we can start using this module in `w3cli` as well as in the new `ipfs-car`.

* Switches to web streams by default, which is what the new web3.storage libraries expect to be passed and use internally
* Strips common prefix from paths automatically for reasons given in https://github.com/web3-storage/w3cli/pull/27

BREAKING CHANGE: API, behavior and return types have changed. The module now only exports one function `filesFromPaths` which returns an array of file-like objects. The stream returned by `stream()` in these objects is now a web stream ([`ReadableStream`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ReadableStream)). File names now have their common prefix stripped automatically. Finally, the minimum Node.js version has increased from 14 to 18 (the current LTS) because of we use `Readable.toWeb()`.

README.md, after:

# files-from-path

> Expand paths to file-like objects with name, readable stream and size.

[![Build](https://github.com/web3-storage/files-from-path/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/web3-storage/files-from-path/actions/workflows/main.yml)
[![JavaScript Style Guide](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-standard-brightgreen.svg)](https://standardjs.com)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/files-from-path.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/files-from-path)

## Install

```sh
npm install files-from-path
```

## Usage

```js
import { filesFromPaths } from 'files-from-path'

// Given a file system like:
// path/to/file.txt
// path/to/dir/a.pdf
// path/to/dir/images/cat.gif

const files = await filesFromPaths(['path/to/file.txt', 'path/to/dir'])
console.log(files)

// Output:
// [
//   { name: 'file.txt', stream: [Function: stream] },
//   { name: 'dir/b.pdf', stream: [Function: stream] },
//   { name: 'dir/images/cat.gif', stream: [Function: stream] },
// ]
// Note: common sub-path ("path/to/") is removed.
```

## API

### filesFromPaths

The following parameters can be provided to `filesFromPaths`:

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| paths | `Iterable<string>` | File system path(s) to read from |
| [options] | `object` | options |
| [options.hidden] | `boolean` | Include .dot files in matched paths (default: `false`) |

It returns an _array_ of file-like objects in the form:

```ts
{
  name: String
  stream (): ReadableStream<Uint8Array>
  size: number
}
```

## Releasing

You can publish by either running npm publish in the dist directory or using npx ipjs publish.
